A0-Setup/README.md, before:

## 0. Preparation
- Ensure you have a code IDE like [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) installed. While you are welcome to use any IDE of your choice, this course will assume the use of VSCode for demonstrations.
- [Install npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) on your machine.
- Ensure that you have a github account ([how to register](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/start-your-journey/creating-an-account-on-github)) and [apply for student education benefits](https://education.github.com/discount_requests/application). The education benefits will allow you to host GitHub Pages from private repositories, which is needed for the assignments in this class. You will need **a personal github account (github.com)** rather than a UMN one (github.umn.edu), the latter does not allow github page.
- Make sure you have Git installed on your computer ([how to install](https://git-scm.com/downloads)).
- Have a Chrome Web Browser

## 1. Preliminary Knowledge: HTML+JS+CSS (Optional)

   - This class assumes you have basic knowledge of web development. However, here's an optional quick refresher to jog your memory.  
      <img width="500" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c39cfa55-87fe-441f-bcf1-d65ff90c9f74">

   - In your VSCode, find the `index.html` file.

   - Open it in your chrome browser and you will see a webpage like below. Press the button will change the shwoing number of clicks.  
      <img width="150" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ddbc6d63-04c8-4a68-8845-882e99698c98">

   - **Modify the webpage to refresh your memory**
     - [modify the style] change the background color of the button to `#44aa66`, modify the button font size to  `font-size: xx-large`
     - [modify the webpage content] as shown below
     - [modify the function] Display the remaining number of clicks. After 5 clicks, show an alert: "No more clicks remaining!".
      <img width="150" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cdac5565-8026-4e8c-98c2-ab4a16850773">
     - [add a button] Add one more button that decreases the counter when clicked.


## 2. Svelte

- **Start A Svelte Project using Svelte Kit**

   * [Svelte](https://svelte.dev) is a modern front-end framework for building web applications. It compiles your components into highly efficient, plain JavaScript code that updates the DOM directly, which results in faster performance and smaller bundle sizes.


   * SvelteKit provides an easy way to start a Svelte Project.
In your terminal, find a location you like to save the project, and run `npx sv create FOLDERNAME` 
(You can name it whatever you prefer, but we will assume `my-vis-5609` as the folder name for following demonstration).
   
        <img width="500" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6403d66a-8eef-4c5a-b7da-0fc97bcc2c35">

   - Open the `my-vis-5609` folder in VSCode. 
   - Open the terminal by selecting `View > Terminal` from the menu bar.

   - Run `npm run dev -- --open` in the terminal. The website will be open in `http://localhost:5173/`. Whenever you change the code, the website will be updated automatically.
   - Install Svelte for VSCode Extension will make your development and debug much easier, highly recommended. You may need to do some [simple setup of the formatter](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode)  
     <img width="450" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a0bf994d-ffc2-46b4-8e05-4d93002c2bf2"/>

- **Move the Button Test into Your Svelte Project**
   - Svelte has a very similar sytax to HTML. One main difference is that the reactivey model in Svelte enables intuitive and efficient modification of DOM (i.e., webpage content) based on the variables defined on the script.
  
   - Please copy and paste the content in the [the provided A0.svelte](https://github.com/Visual-Intelligence-UMN/5609Visualization-Assignments/blob/main/A0-Setup/A0.svelte) to the `src/routes/+page.svelte` in your project. Following the instructions in the template code to achive the same "Remaining Number of Clicks" function described above, and given users the ablity to modify the max click num. Comments start with `tip` indicate the sections you need to complete.   
     <img width="213" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/350799fd-7dfc-4338-9a2c-ce4e830108c1" />


   References: [Offical Svelte Tutorials](https://svelte.dev/tutorial/svelte/welcome-to-svelte)


## 3. Publish to Github Page

- **Create A Github Repository**
  - The folder created by svelte kit, **my-vis-5609**, will be your GitHub repo. Please DO NOT make nested folders, which will make your deployment complicated.  
    ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1cbcf300-cca2-4013-98b2-0677cfd8f0aa)

  - Sign into VSCode with your GitHub account in the Accounts menu, located in the lower right of the Activity bar.  
      <img width="250" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7963cb4c-6457-4cbf-8ee8-049caffa2d8e"/>

  - You can then use the source control feature in VSCode to initialize your repo, publish the repo to github, and commit and push changes. Ensure that your github repo is private.     
      <img width="250" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/77b28a2a-3cb9-42db-97fc-a3c8e6a8e9c7">
      <img width="250" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/21d96b06-250e-44af-906e-75e676a17bb7">

- **Deploy Your Website to Github Page**
   
   - On github.com, enable GitHub Pages on your repo by selecting “Github Actions” as the source (Repo settings → Pages → Source: GitHub Actions).  
   <img width="450" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/27485da5-55fc-4153-8c09-ab06c3bc473c"/>

   - In your terminal, run `npm i -D --save @sveltejs/adapter-static`.

   - Download files in this A0 folder, and copy them as below for your repo (You can also read [SvelteKit Guide to deploy to GitHub Pages](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/adapter-static#GitHub-Pages) for details):

      - `.github/workflows/build-and-deploy.yml`: you will need to create a `.github` folder (note the dot!) and a `workflows` folder inside it. 
      - `svelte.config.js` (this will replace svelte.config.js file already in your project.)
      - Open `svelte.config.js` and change 'my-vis-5609' to your own `FOLDERNAME` if you used a different one.


   - Commit and push these changes to your repo.

   If all goes well, your app should be deployed to `YOUR_USERNAME.github.io/FOLDERNAME`.  
   To see our GitHub Action in action (no pun intended 🙃), navigate to the “Actions” tab on your GitHub repo. You’ll be able to see both actions that are currently running, as well as past ones.

## 4. Submission
Please submit the URLs of a) your public github page and b) private github repo in Canvas.

Ensure that you have added the [instructor](https://github.com/wangqianwen0418) and [TA](https://github.com/DanhuaZhang) to your private github repo so that we can access your source code, though most of the time, the grading does not depends on the source code.
You will work on the same repo for the remainder of the semester.

**Grading:**

- [1 pt] Publicly accessible URL to your Github Page
- [1 pt] Private github repo where the instructor and the TA has been invited to
- [3 pts] Functionable Demo:
   - All DOMs are present (images, text, button) (1 pt)
   - The text updates correctly with each button click (1 pt)
   - Users are able to change the allowed number of clicks (1 pt)

Commit message:

Update setup instructions in README.md

A0-Setup/README.md, after:

## 0. Preparation
- Ensure you have a code IDE like [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) installed. While you are welcome to use any IDE of your choice, this course will assume the use of VSCode for demonstrations.
- [Install npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) on your machine.
- Ensure that you have a github account ([how to register](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/start-your-journey/creating-an-account-on-github)) and [apply for student education benefits](https://education.github.com/discount_requests/application). The education benefits will allow you to host GitHub Pages from private repositories, which is needed for the assignments in this class. You will need **a personal github account (github.com)** rather than a UMN one (github.umn.edu), the latter does not allow github page.
- Make sure you have Git installed on your computer ([how to install](https://git-scm.com/downloads)).
- Have a Chrome Web Browser

## 1. Preliminary Knowledge: HTML+JS+CSS (Optional)

   - This class assumes you have basic knowledge of web development. However, here's an optional quick refresher to jog your memory.  
      <img width="500" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c39cfa55-87fe-441f-bcf1-d65ff90c9f74">

   - Create an empty folder and name it as CSCI5609-W22. Open it using your VSCode.
   - In your VSCode, create an `index.html` file. Copy and paste the content from this `Assignments-Instructions/A0-Setup/index.html` to your own `index.html` file.

   - Open it in your chrome browser and you will see a webpage like below. Press the button will change the shwoing number of clicks.  
      <img width="150" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ddbc6d63-04c8-4a68-8845-882e99698c98">

   - **Modify the webpage to refresh your memory**
     - [modify the style] change the background color of the button to `#44aa66`, modify the button font size to  `font-size: xx-large`
     - [modify the webpage content] as shown below
     - [modify the function] Display the remaining number of clicks. After 5 clicks, show an alert: "No more clicks remaining!".
      <img width="150" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cdac5565-8026-4e8c-98c2-ab4a16850773">
     - [add a button] Add one more button that decreases the counter when clicked.


## 2. Svelte

- **Start A Svelte Project using Svelte Kit**

   * [Svelte](https://svelte.dev) is a modern front-end framework for building web applications. It compiles your components into highly efficient, plain JavaScript code that updates the DOM directly, which results in faster performance and smaller bundle sizes.


   * SvelteKit provides an easy way to start a Svelte Project.
In your terminal, find a location you like to save the project, and run `npx sv create FOLDERNAME` 
(You can name it whatever you prefer, but we will assume `my-vis-5609` as the folder name for following demonstration).
   
        <img width="500" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6403d66a-8eef-4c5a-b7da-0fc97bcc2c35">

   - Open the `my-vis-5609` folder in VSCode. 
   - Open the terminal by selecting `View > Terminal` from the menu bar.

   - Run `npm run dev -- --open` in the terminal. The website will be open in `http://localhost:5173/`. Whenever you change the code, the website will be updated automatically.
   - Install Svelte for VSCode Extension will make your development and debug much easier, highly recommended. You may need to do some [simple setup of the formatter](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode)  
     <img width="450" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a0bf994d-ffc2-46b4-8e05-4d93002c2bf2"/>

- **Move the Button Test into Your Svelte Project**
   - Svelte has a very similar sytax to HTML. One main difference is that the reactivey model in Svelte enables intuitive and efficient modification of DOM (i.e., webpage content) based on the variables defined on the script.
  
   - Please copy and paste the content in the [the provided A0.svelte](https://github.com/Visual-Intelligence-UMN/5609Visualization-Assignments/blob/main/A0-Setup/A0.svelte) to the `src/routes/+page.svelte` in your project. Following the instructions in the template code to achive the same "Remaining Number of Clicks" function described above, and given users the ablity to modify the max click num. Comments start with `tip` indicate the sections you need to complete.   
     <img width="213" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/350799fd-7dfc-4338-9a2c-ce4e830108c1" />


   References: [Offical Svelte Tutorials](https://svelte.dev/tutorial/svelte/welcome-to-svelte)


## 3. Publish to Github Page

- **Create A Github Repository**
  - The folder created by svelte kit, **my-vis-5609**, will be your GitHub repo. Please DO NOT make nested folders, which will make your deployment complicated.  
    ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1cbcf300-cca2-4013-98b2-0677cfd8f0aa)

  - Sign into VSCode with your GitHub account in the Accounts menu, located in the lower right of the Activity bar.  
      <img width="250" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7963cb4c-6457-4cbf-8ee8-049caffa2d8e"/>

  - You can then use the source control feature in VSCode to initialize your repo, publish the repo to github, and commit and push changes. Ensure that your github repo is private.     
      <img width="250" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/77b28a2a-3cb9-42db-97fc-a3c8e6a8e9c7">
      <img width="250" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/21d96b06-250e-44af-906e-75e676a17bb7">

- **Deploy Your Website to Github Page**
   
   - On github.com, enable GitHub Pages on your repo by selecting “Github Actions” as the source (Repo settings → Pages → Source: GitHub Actions).  
   <img width="450" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/27485da5-55fc-4153-8c09-ab06c3bc473c"/>

   - In your terminal, run `npm i -D --save @sveltejs/adapter-static`.

   - Download files in this A0 folder, and copy them as below for your repo (You can also read [SvelteKit Guide to deploy to GitHub Pages](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/adapter-static#GitHub-Pages) for details):

      - `.github/workflows/build-and-deploy.yml`: you will need to create a `.github` folder (note the dot!) and a `workflows` folder inside it. 
      - `svelte.config.js` (this will replace svelte.config.js file already in your project.)
      - Open `svelte.config.js` and change 'my-vis-5609' to your own `FOLDERNAME` if you used a different one.


   - Commit and push these changes to your repo.

   If all goes well, your app should be deployed to `YOUR_USERNAME.github.io/FOLDERNAME`.  
   To see our GitHub Action in action (no pun intended 🙃), navigate to the “Actions” tab on your GitHub repo. You’ll be able to see both actions that are currently running, as well as past ones.

## 4. Submission
Please submit the URLs of a) your public github page and b) private github repo in Canvas.

Ensure that you have added the [instructor](https://github.com/wangqianwen0418) and [TA](https://github.com/DanhuaZhang) to your private github repo so that we can access your source code, though most of the time, the grading does not depends on the source code.
You will work on the same repo for the remainder of the semester.

**Grading:**

- [1 pt] Publicly accessible URL to your Github Page
- [1 pt] Private github repo where the instructor and the TA has been invited to
- [3 pts] Functionable Demo:
   - All DOMs are present (images, text, button) (1 pt)
   - The text updates correctly with each button click (1 pt)
   - Users are able to change the allowed number of clicks (1 pt)
